okay so let's go over how to properly
dawn and doff personal protective
equipment PPE in particular this is
gonna be PPE for airborne droplet and
contact precautions we'll start off with
the donning or putting off procedure
we'll wrap up with the doffing or
removal procedure but before we get into
those procedures let's talk the basics
what's the equipment that you're gonna
need to do this protect yourself
properly the first thing is going to be
a gown you'll also need an n95 face mask
this is going to be for the airborne
precautions if you don't have one you
can't use a surgical mask but just
realize this is not going to be for
airborne this will just be for droplet
and contact precautions you'll need a
face shield alternatively you can use
goggles if that's all you have and
you'll need a pair of gloves you'll also
need an appropriate hand hygiene station
with an alcohol base antibacterial
antiviral solution a trash bin and an
area where you can put this on and take
it off safely so usually when you have a
daunting area it's going to be outside
the patient's room or the outside the
isolation room where you have all your
equipment you have your hand hygiene
station you can put things on safely and
take things off safely before you start
you also want to think about well what
do you have on your person if you have
jewelry such as watches rings earrings
necklaces you might want to consider
taking those off as they can be nice as
for infection if you have a long hair
you're going to want to clip that hair
up alternatively in addition to that you
can wear a hair bonnet and if you have a
beard or facial hair you're going to
need to shave that off so that you can
appropriately have a good seal with your
n95 mask so let's move on into the
donning procedure the first thing we
need to do this is a cornerstone for PPE
is good hand hygiene and the way I think
of hand hygiene is I usually do two
three pumps and it should take about 20
seconds I start off by rubbing the front
of
my hands and the back and get really
good contact between the two palms and
then I move to the back and I go in
between my digits with the opposite hand
down to the web spaces and I'll repeat
that for the other side same thing
really getting in between those fingers
remember your thumbs now they stick out
so you want to do those individually by
rotating them in the opposite palm for
both of them and then don't forget the
tips your fingers in order to get the
tips of the fingers I will rub them in a
circular fashion the opposite palm and
do the same for the other side and then
I'll finish up by rubbing the rest of
that alcohol sanitizer till it's
completely dry and now you have a proper
hand hygiene to move forward and start
putting on your gear the first piece of
gear we're going to start up is going to
be the gap so gamming up what I'd like
to do is I like to open it up and I
check it for defects right holes tears
tabs that may be missing that won't
allow me to put it on properly once I am
ensured that it's good I'll start by
putting my sleeves in this one goes over
your head and you'll notice you have
these two thumb holes those are any four
right before you put your gloves on you
don't need to do that we're at the
beginning but realize that you will need
that to get a good seal between the
glove and the sleeve tie it up in the
back if you have a necktie well do the
necktie this one doesn't have one it
just goes over your head and then now
you're bound up the next step is going
to be your face mask so the n95 and when
I'm doing the a ninety five I like to
cup it in my hands so that I have my two
straps here and what I'll do is I'll put
it on to my face and pull that first
strap over my head to the crown of my
head right at the top and the second the
lower strap I'll pull over and you want
to bring that all the way down to the
nape of your neck where you don't have
any hair make sure that the straps are
nice and flush and now you're ready to
mold the mask
to your face this is really important
because you need a good seal to protect
you from any of those airborne
precautions the viruses that might be
aerosolized the molding process starts
at the nose I push and mold it along my
nose and then what I'll do is I'll move
around my face to make sure I have a
good solid seal this is why you can't
have a beard you'll break that seal the
last part really is checking for any air
leaks and to do that you will exhale and
feel for air leaks around if you have
any of those you need to readjust the
mask so that you don't have that air
leak coming in and out and so now your
masked up your molded it's sealed the
next step is going to be the face shield
or the goggles if you're wearing goggles
it's pretty much put them on put the
strap back these need to go over glasses
if you wear I wear typically though we
have face shields same thing with this
it has a padding that will go on the
forehead you want to take that strap put
it to the back you can tighten so make
that nice and snug and the real
important part is to make sure that the
space shield comes all the way down
below that mass protect you from
anything that may be coming in terms of
the contact of the aerosol eyes or the
sputum that may be coming from your
patient and finally it's going to be the
gloves so when I do that gloves I'll put
my thumbs
into the sleeve holes and you just
basically put your glove on as you would
any one glove and the key here is to
make sure that you pull that glove above
the cuff of your sleeves if there's no
skin showing between the glove and your
gown and that's why you have those
little rings that really ensures that
you have that link to cover it up a
quick note in terms of the gloves
sometimes people will double glove that
way if they're in with the patient and
they have a contaminated pair either
from sputum or bodily fluids they can
quickly remove those and
a clean version that is not essential
you can by all means do that but if you
do have contamination and realize you
can always repeat the hand hygiene with
the gloves on so if these become
contaminated I'll just go back to my
hand hygiene so that you've
decontaminated these gloves and now
you're basically ready to enter the
patient isolation room and do your
patient care with proper PPE okay let's
go over how to remove or doff your PPE
before I go through those steps I do
want to talk you through what happens in
here in the patient's room and you get
grossly contaminated first off say your
pans right you're gonna be using your
hands let's say you have bodily fluids
that have gotten onto your gloves and
you need to continue taking care of the
patient by all means take the time to
decontaminate so what you do would be
take a white for the gross contamination
and remove it off and repeat your hand
hygiene if you hit double glove this is
the chance to remove that outer layer
and again do hand hygiene and now you're
ready to continue taking care of the
patient you don't have to stop what
you're doing if for some reason the
contamination is on your face shield or
your mask don't touch those leave those
on until you're completely ready to
remove all your PPE and Dopp it you
should be readjusting your mask or your
face shield while you're in that patient
room that's a high risk kind of setting
where you don't want to contaminate
anything they really should stay in
place once they're on but now let's say
you are done being in that patient's
room or in that isolation room and
you're ready to remove them PPE most of
the removal of everything except your
mass is going to happen inside that room
usually at the door where you can throw
it away you may have a decontamination
site right outside of that room that's
fun but just realize you want to keep
that mask on until you're outside of the
isolation room because the airborne
precautions are what this is going to be
protecting you from so you're inside the
room and you're ready to dock your
equipment by
the trashcan or you're in that protected
area you're ready to Dolf it the first
thing this is going to repeat over and
over again is hand hygiene
so I'm gloved I'm gonna do my 20 seconds
of hand hygiene once that's completed
the first piece of equipment you're
gonna move is your gown and this is a
disposable gown where you're going to be
able to rip it off and pull it off your
body if it's a cloth down that goes into
the laundry you might have to do either
the velcro strap or do the Untied just
realize it if you are on time you're
gonna have to pull this downward to
protect yourself and then untie the
strap you don't want to be doing this
back here waiting Tammy
your clothes or your hair etc thankful
me with these disposable ones they just
rip off so you want to give yourself a
hug and you pull up the shoulders and
you're gonna be basically pulling off at
the shoulders and waist and you're
keeping your hands in those sleeves and
you roll this gown off of your hands
down to the gloves and remove the entire
thing including your gloves with it as a
whole entity ball it up and throw it in
the trash
at this point remember we repeat hand
hygiene so repeating the hand hygiene 20
seconds good cleaning once that's
completed the next step is removing the
face shield
there's a couple ways of doing this you
can grab the front of the mask and pull
off like this you can grab from the
sides and pull back I kind of like you
with the front aspect or at least a side
aspect I don't want to be going back
here again I don't want to tan Nate my
hair so when I remove this I'll do the
side up front pull it off wait for me
and throw it into the trash now at this
point again what's the next step
hand hygiene I have to repeat in your
hand hiding between each step because
every time you remove something baby can
be
risk for contamination once I've
completed my hand hygiene I can now
either leave that dirty space either the
room or the decontamination site with my
mask off so then I remove that in a safe
area where there is no risk of
aerosolized
droplets that may be inhaled when I take
this off okay so once you've removed
yourself from the isolation room or the
patient's room where there's the risk of
the aerosol eyes
virus or infectious particles you can
now safely remove your n95 mask or your
respirator and so before you do this
step you're gonna want it again or
repeat your hand hygiene all right they
can share your hands or is clean and
decontaminated as possible this is a
20-second procedure I'm not going to go
through the whole thing again because
it's just gonna bore you guys to death
but once you have your hand hygiene
you're now ready to remove the mask what
I'll do for this is all been slightly
forward put my head down what I'm gonna
do is I'm gonna grab the lower strap
first pull it over my head release that
strap and now I'll grab the upper straps
here pull that forward and you'll have a
mass hanging and then you can just throw
it right into the trash can I'll take
this opportunity to remove the hair
bonnet and then you're gonna wrap up the
doffing procedure with good hand hygiene
again alright so 20 seconds of really
making sure you're cleaning your hands
to decrease the spread of infection if
there's a sink with soap and water I'll
take this opportunity to use it and
really wash myself up to the forearms
etc and now I'm done I've protected
myself and I'm ready to move on to
caring for the rest of the other
patients